README.md, before:

# BucketBase

BucketBase offers a comprehensive suite of base classes tailored for abstracting object storage solutions. It's designed to facilitate seamless integration with
different storage backends, including S3-compatible services (like Minio), in-memory storage for testing, and file-based storage for local development and
caching purposes. This flexibility makes it an ideal choice for projects that require a unified API for object storage across various environments.

## Features

- **S3 Compatible Storage Support:** Use with any S3-compatible storage service like Minio, AWS S3, etc.
- **In-memory Storage:** Perfect for testing purposes, avoiding the need for an actual object storage service.
- **File Storage:** Ideal for local development and caching, simulating an object storage interface with local file system.
- **Extensible:** Implement the `IBucket` interface to support additional storage backends.
- **Synchronized Storage:** Built-in support for synchronized, append-only storage operations.

## Installation

Install BucketBase using pip:

```bash
pip install bucketbase
```

PyPi home page: [https://pypi.org/project/bucketbase/](https://pypi.org/project/bucketbase/)

## Quick Start

To get started with BucketBase, first import the storage class you wish to use:

```python
from bucketbase.memory_bucket import MemoryBucket
from bucketbase.minio_bucket import MinioBucket
from bucketbase.fs_bucket import FSBucket, AppendOnlyFSBucket
```

### Using Memory Storage

Memory storage is useful for tests or development environments where no persistence is required.

```python
bucket = MemoryBucket()
bucket.put_object("test.txt", "Hello, World!")
print(bucket.get_object("test.txt"))  # Outputs: b'Hello, World!'
```

### Using File Storage

File storage is useful for local development and caching.

```python
bucket = FSBucket("/path/to/storage")
bucket.put_object("hello.txt", "Hello, File Storage!")
print(bucket.get_object("hello.txt"))  # Outputs: b'Hello, File Storage!'
```

### Using Minio (S3 Compatible Storage)

Ensure you have Minio server running and accessible.

```python
from bucketbase.minio_bucket import MinioBucket

bucket = MinioBucket(endpoint="localhost:9000", access_key="minioadmin", secret_key="minioadmin", secure=False)
bucket.put_object("greet.txt", "Hello, Minio!")
print(bucket.get_object("greet.txt"))  # Outputs: b'Hello, Minio!'
```

### Copy and Move objects by Prefix

You can copy and move objects between buckets by prefix.

```python
from bucketbase.minio_bucket import MinioBucket

bucket = MinioBucket(endpoint="localhost:9000", access_key="minioadmin", secret_key="minioadmin", secure=False)
dest_bucket = MinioBucket(endpoint="localhost:9000", access_key="minioadmin", secret_key="minioadmin", secure=False, bucket_name="new_bucket")
bucket.put_object("greet.txt", "Hello, Minio!")

bucket.copy_prefix(dst_bucket=dest_bucket, src_prefix="greet.", dst_prefix="copy_dir/")
bucket.move_prefix(dst_bucket=dest_bucket, src_prefix="greet.", dst_prefix="move_dir/")
```

### Using Synchronized Append-Only Storage

For scenarios requiring thread-safe or process-safe operations, especially when implementing caching mechanisms, you can use the synchronized append-only storage functionality:

```python
from bucketbase.fs_bucket import AppendOnlyFSBucket

# Create a synchronized, append-only bucket
bucket = AppendOnlyFSBucket("/path/to/cache")

# Operations are thread-safe and append-only
bucket.put_object("data.txt", "Hello, World!")  # Works first time
bucket.put_object("data.txt", "New content")  # Raises UnsupportedOperation - can't modify existing files
```

Key characteristics of synchronized append-only storage:

- Thread-safe and process-safe operations
- Objects cannot be modified once created
- Deletion operations are not supported
- Ideal for implementing caching mechanisms
- Prevents race conditions in multi-process environments

## Advanced Usage

For advanced usage, including error handling, listing objects, and more, refer to the IBucket interface and the specific implementation you are using. Each
storage option may have additional methods and features tailored to its backend.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute, please fork the repository and use a feature branch. Pull requests are warmly welcome.

## Licensing

The code in this project is licensed under MIT license.

### Changelog

##### 1.4.7

- Added important feature to AsyncObjectWriter to properly work with the file-objects like ArrowSink that is not aware of the finalization semantics.
    - for these purpose the bucketbase.utils.NonClosingStream was added
- Credits to [Alexandru Maximciuc](https://github.com/amaximciuc) for the feature request and to [Maxim Morari](https://github.com/MorariMaxim) for the implementation.

##### 1.4.0

- Added IBucket.get_size()
- FSBucket now creates a temp dir in the root dir, and uses it for temp files and locks, and ensures it's not listed in the object listings
- atomic FSBucket.put_object() by storing initially in a temp file (in the same root dir), and renaming it atomically
- prefix validations

##### 1.3.2

- Added minio extra dependency to work with pip

##### 1.3.1

- Fix bug in MinioObjectStream returned by MinioBucket.get_object_stream()

##### 1.3.0

- Added streaming capability: IBucket.put_object_stream() & IBucket.get_object_stream()

##### 1.2.4

- Added Windows Long name error handling in MinioBucket.fget_object()

##### 1.2.3

- Fixed corner-case where IBucket.copy_prefix copies to root
- Renamed arg dest_bucket -> dst_bucket

##### 1.2.2

- Added FSBucket.get_root()

##### 1.2.1

- Added IBucket.copy_prefix() & IBucket.move_prefix()
- minor refactoring and default params

##### 1.2.0 (breaking changes)

- rename all IBucket method args: object_name -> name
- rename args: list_of_objects -> names

##### 1.1.0 (breaking changes)

- IBucket rename: get_object_content() -> get_object()
- IBucket.fput_oject() rename arg: destination -> file_path

##### 1.0.1

- Added ShallowListing to __init__.py

---
This README.md provides a general overview of BucketBase, instructions for installation, a quick start guide for using its various storage options, and an
invitation for contributions. It's structured to be informative and straightforward, allowing users to quickly get started with the project.

Commit message:

v1.4.8: Fixed GC related BUG in AsyncObjectWriter reproducible when AsyncObjectWriter context is not entered

README.md, after:

# BucketBase

BucketBase offers a comprehensive suite of base classes tailored for abstracting object storage solutions. It's designed to facilitate seamless integration with
different storage backends, including S3-compatible services (like Minio), in-memory storage for testing, and file-based storage for local development and
caching purposes. This flexibility makes it an ideal choice for projects that require a unified API for object storage across various environments.

## Features

- **S3 Compatible Storage Support:** Use with any S3-compatible storage service like Minio, AWS S3, etc.
- **In-memory Storage:** Perfect for testing purposes, avoiding the need for an actual object storage service.
- **File Storage:** Ideal for local development and caching, simulating an object storage interface with local file system.
- **Extensible:** Implement the `IBucket` interface to support additional storage backends.
- **Synchronized Storage:** Built-in support for synchronized, append-only storage operations.

## Installation

Install BucketBase using pip:

```bash
pip install bucketbase
```

PyPi home page: [https://pypi.org/project/bucketbase/](https://pypi.org/project/bucketbase/)

## Quick Start

To get started with BucketBase, first import the storage class you wish to use:

```python
from bucketbase.memory_bucket import MemoryBucket
from bucketbase.minio_bucket import MinioBucket
from bucketbase.fs_bucket import FSBucket, AppendOnlyFSBucket
```

### Using Memory Storage

Memory storage is useful for tests or development environments where no persistence is required.

```python
bucket = MemoryBucket()
bucket.put_object("test.txt", "Hello, World!")
print(bucket.get_object("test.txt"))  # Outputs: b'Hello, World!'
```

### Using File Storage

File storage is useful for local development and caching.

```python
bucket = FSBucket("/path/to/storage")
bucket.put_object("hello.txt", "Hello, File Storage!")
print(bucket.get_object("hello.txt"))  # Outputs: b'Hello, File Storage!'
```

### Using Minio (S3 Compatible Storage)

Ensure you have Minio server running and accessible.

```python
from bucketbase.minio_bucket import MinioBucket

bucket = MinioBucket(endpoint="localhost:9000", access_key="minioadmin", secret_key="minioadmin", secure=False)
bucket.put_object("greet.txt", "Hello, Minio!")
print(bucket.get_object("greet.txt"))  # Outputs: b'Hello, Minio!'
```

### Copy and Move objects by Prefix

You can copy and move objects between buckets by prefix.

```python
from bucketbase.minio_bucket import MinioBucket

bucket = MinioBucket(endpoint="localhost:9000", access_key="minioadmin", secret_key="minioadmin", secure=False)
dest_bucket = MinioBucket(endpoint="localhost:9000", access_key="minioadmin", secret_key="minioadmin", secure=False, bucket_name="new_bucket")
bucket.put_object("greet.txt", "Hello, Minio!")

bucket.copy_prefix(dst_bucket=dest_bucket, src_prefix="greet.", dst_prefix="copy_dir/")
bucket.move_prefix(dst_bucket=dest_bucket, src_prefix="greet.", dst_prefix="move_dir/")
```

### Using Synchronized Append-Only Storage

For scenarios requiring thread-safe or process-safe operations, especially when implementing caching mechanisms, you can use the synchronized append-only storage functionality:

```python
from bucketbase.fs_bucket import AppendOnlyFSBucket

# Create a synchronized, append-only bucket
bucket = AppendOnlyFSBucket("/path/to/cache")

# Operations are thread-safe and append-only
bucket.put_object("data.txt", "Hello, World!")  # Works first time
bucket.put_object("data.txt", "New content")  # Raises UnsupportedOperation - can't modify existing files
```

Key characteristics of synchronized append-only storage:

- Thread-safe and process-safe operations
- Objects cannot be modified once created
- Deletion operations are not supported
- Ideal for implementing caching mechanisms
- Prevents race conditions in multi-process environments

## Advanced Usage

For advanced usage, including error handling, listing objects, and more, refer to the IBucket interface and the specific implementation you are using. Each
storage option may have additional methods and features tailored to its backend.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute, please fork the repository and use a feature branch. Pull requests are warmly welcome.

## Licensing

The code in this project is licensed under MIT license.

### Changelog

##### 1.4.8

- Fixed GC related BUG in AsyncObjectWriter reproducible when AsyncObjectWriter context is not entered.
- Credits to [Maxim Morari](https://github.com/MorariMaxim) for the BUG report.

##### 1.4.7

- Added important feature to AsyncObjectWriter to properly work with the file-objects like ArrowSink that is not aware of the finalization semantics.
    - for these purpose the bucketbase.utils.NonClosingStream was added
- Credits to [Alexandru Maximciuc](https://github.com/amaximciuc) for the feature request and to [Maxim Morari](https://github.com/MorariMaxim) for the implementation.

##### 1.4.0

- Added IBucket.get_size()
- FSBucket now creates a temp dir in the root dir, and uses it for temp files and locks, and ensures it's not listed in the object listings
- atomic FSBucket.put_object() by storing initially in a temp file (in the same root dir), and renaming it atomically
- prefix validations

##### 1.3.2

- Added minio extra dependency to work with pip

##### 1.3.1

- Fix bug in MinioObjectStream returned by MinioBucket.get_object_stream()

##### 1.3.0

- Added streaming capability: IBucket.put_object_stream() & IBucket.get_object_stream()

##### 1.2.4

- Added Windows Long name error handling in MinioBucket.fget_object()

##### 1.2.3

- Fixed corner-case where IBucket.copy_prefix copies to root
- Renamed arg dest_bucket -> dst_bucket

##### 1.2.2

- Added FSBucket.get_root()

##### 1.2.1

- Added IBucket.copy_prefix() & IBucket.move_prefix()
- minor refactoring and default params

##### 1.2.0 (breaking changes)

- rename all IBucket method args: object_name -> name
- rename args: list_of_objects -> names

##### 1.1.0 (breaking changes)

- IBucket rename: get_object_content() -> get_object()
- IBucket.fput_oject() rename arg: destination -> file_path

##### 1.0.1

- Added ShallowListing to __init__.py

---
This README.md provides a general overview of BucketBase, instructions for installation, a quick start guide for using its various storage options, and an
invitation for contributions. It's structured to be informative and straightforward, allowing users to quickly get started with the project.
